=pod

Lately my personal planning has been a struggle. I have a history of bouncing 
from one personal planning tool to another. In some sense my current trouble 
with planning is not out of character. In this sea of inconsistency, I have had 
two periods of relative success in my planning, and my sense of failure arises 
out of comparisons with those successes. What can I learn from those successful 
episodes and how can I apply those lessons to my current planning?

Last November and December, I journaled every morning. I began journaling 
because I was too focused on programming projects. During conversations with 
Katherine, we would reach a point at which I wanted to think about something in 
greater depth, and I would request that she let me "think about it," but I would 
never actually devote any time to thinking about the topic. After a couple of 
weeks focusing mostly on my relationship, things fell apart with Luis and I 
devoted lots of time journaling about that. In all, I had over six weeks of 
daily journaling. After about a month I began to change the system and it 
eventually morphed into something that was no longer useful. A key feature of 
this system is that it was the first thing that I did every morning after making 
coffee. I always did it first so that even if nothing else went as it "should," 
at least I would have gotten my thinking in for the day. This system was 
important for me at the time, and it lasted longer than most systems, but it did 
not have any real staying power.

Presently, I am trying to use the planning system I developed in grad school. In 
this system, I organize my time and life into broad topics: my current work, my 
house in Urbana, church life, Dickinson, home life, family, health, and the move 
to Carlisle. In each of these topics I have three time frames of interest: the 
next two weeks, the following four weeks, and the following twelve weeks. Within 
each time frame I have projects with a description of what I want to do. If it 
is in the first two weeks, I typically have tasks with due dates. I examine and 
revise my plans for a different topic each morning, such that by the end of the 
week, I have reviewed all of my topics. During the weekly planning, I typicaly 
roll one or two items from the longer-term into the shorter term. The process of 
writing and updating the topic and project descriptions causes me to review my 
plans in a depth I do not get with checklists. This system gives me constant 
reminders about what's important in each facet of my life. When the system 
works, it works very well.

I have tried to use this system for the last month, with limited success. I 
jumped into planning in mid-May, spurred by disorganized plans for my house and 
for the move. Although I reaped immediate benefits, I abruptly stopped after two 
weeks. The most troubling part in all of this is that this is not like flossing. 
I *enjoy* planning. It gives me a strong sense of clarity and confidence in what 
I do. Why don't I continue doing this thing that I enjoy?

A key difference between the present and the last two years of grad school is 
that my time in grad school was much more consistently structured. This may seem 
odd---that a 9-5 job would have less structure than grad school---but it turns 
out to be true. For example, during my most focused months of grad school, I 
wold get up at 6 am, take a shower, and walk in to campus. I would arrive on 
campus before 7 o'clock, start my coffee maker, have breakfast (I kept milk and 
cereal in my office, and brought a fresh piece of fruit every day), and sit down 
to plan my day. The morning routine culminated with planning and was incredibly 
consistent. Another source of consistency was that I almost always planned on my 
office desktop machine. In particular, I had a number of virtual desktops on my 
Ubuntu setup, and one of them was dedicated to planning and time tracking. 
Consistent time, consistent location, consistent technological setup all helped 
me to consistently plan. In my current job, I switch between planning at home or 
at work (or not at all), Katherine changes the time that we get up, and I have a 
50 minute commute that leaves too much time open for distraction. Remarkably, my 
time was more structured in grad school than it is now.

Another important difference is that I carefully and religiously tracked how I 
spent my time. I began setting goals for the amount of time I would spend on 
different facets of my work, and if it wasn't logged it didn't count. In fact, I 
wouldn't leave the office until I had spent the alotted time, or on the rare 
occassions when I left before I had my hours, I would redouble my efforts the 
next day to make them up. Astoundingly, this turned my time consumption into a 
game of sorts, with the number of hours on "productive" things being the score 
that I tried to maximize. Some of the work was easy but monotonous, such as 
grading. Other work was easy but marginally productive, such as attending the 
colloquium. Still, having "easy" but limited ways to get in my hours was a 
welcomed relief, and helped move the whole enterprise forward. It was an 
incredibly powerful mechanism for putting down distracting work and refocusing 
on more important items.

I was paid to teach and I always gave top priority to my teaching obligations. 
Fortunately, teaching took up some but not all of my time, and it did so in a 
very consistent way. I had a number of regular teaching obligations throughout 
the week. This ebb and flow of obligations had exceptions, such as test weeks, 
and the cycle of the semester. All of this led to a system that regularly broke 
up my week, occasionally provided unexpected breaks and obligations, and never 
got stale.

Not only did my teaching provide a consistent ebb and flow, but when not 
teaching, I felt like my time was my own, to use or to waste. If I spent my 
non-teaching time working on my house or on Perl-related work instead of 
research, the loss was mine, not my employer's. This made the separation between 
"productive" and "other" work very simple. In contrast, every minute during my 
postdoc that does not lead to productive results costs my employer, yet the line 
between "productive" and "other" work was never clearly specified. (I will touch 
more on my successes and failures at the Amaral Lab in a future post.) The point 
is that my time management was more successful because it was more flexible in 
how I spent my hours. I needed to get in a number of hours on teaching and 
research, but if I spent some time working on my house or on Perl projects, that 
was acceptable.

What differentiates my successful strategies from my less successful ones? A 
common theme running through both my journaling and my grad-school planning is a 
first-thing approach: I seem to feel most successful when my planning activities 
come first thing in the morning, usually with breakfast. Another aspect of 
successful planning is a sense of careful review. While journaling I would 
carefully review important conversations from the previous day, and in grad 
school I looked over my previous day's hours and was constantly changing and 
updating my plans. My time tracking in grad school led to a much more finely 
grained awareness of my use and abuse of my time; journaling leads to a 
day-by-day awareness of where I may have used my time well or not. A clear theme 
emerging from my time in grad school is a need for high priority items that do 
not claim all of my time.

My problem has been, and always will be, that I am too easily drawn into 
compelling but unimportant tasks. I recall from a conversation years ago that 
the goal of my planning should not be to suppress my compulsive behavior but to 
tame it. I have clearly had successful and unsuccessful strategies. As I go
through the next major work change, I need to focus on what has led to success
in time management so that Katherine, Dickinson, and I am pleased with my
efforts.

=cut
