=pod

Yesterday I discussed some of the important positive aspects of my postdoc that 
I hope to take with me. Today I want to discuss some of the hard lessons learned 
while working in the Amaral Lab.

I like algorithms; I don't like cutting-edge time series analysis. It took me a 
long time to realize this, and it only came to me after having a hard meeting 
with my boss. Why had I not made much progress in our research? The reason is 
simple: I only cared about the heart of the algorithm. Fine tuning a time-series 
algorithm simply does not interest me and takes great effort for me to make any 
progress. Unfortunately, when I had this realization, I thought that we were 
close to finishing the project, so I didn't ask to rotate off the project. That 
was a mistake: the scope of the project has morphed and it has cotinued to 
progress only very slowly. I have probably missed opportunities to make positive 
contributions elsewhere in the lab. That is another thing that I have learned in 
this process: when I realize that I am not interested in something, I need to 
say something about it, discuss it with my colleagues, and plan for my exit.

Because my interests and the research goals did not align, Luis and I did not 
interact well. The unfortunate pattern that developed was that Luis would have 
an idea for the analysis and would ask me to implement the idea. I typically 
morphed his idea into something that was more algorithmically interesting to me 
and implemented that instead. As my mind took Luis's idea and algorithmically 
enhanced it, I usually forgot all but the kernel of Luis's idea. As a result, 
Luis became more precise in his specifications and more annoyed when I 
implemented increasingly different ideas. Luis felt like I was being passive 
aggressive (which was true to some extent), and I felt that Luis didn't care 
about my contributions to the analysis. When Luis eventually suggested that I 
move off of this project, it seemed like the pinnacle of ignoring my 
contributions to the work. Had I realized that I like algorithms and not time 
series analysis, I would have taken Luis up on his suggestion.

Over discussions with my dad, I realized that I work best when my "boss" is 
either a working manager or when my job expectations are very clear cut. At 
Illinois, my advisor was a working manager: Richard was directly involved with 
the calculations for our papers. This is also true of my teaching assignments. 
The lead professors also taught lab or discussion sections. My teaching work 
also had clear expectations and the path to completion of those expectataions 
was obvious. For all of these reasons, and because I enjoy teaching, I expect
that things will go much better for me at Dickinson.

Finally, I have learned that I need to manage my time, and I have learned a few 
key elements that tend to help my efforts. This has been the topic of other blog 
entries and I won't go into it here.

It is unfortunate that my time at the Amaral Lab hit the scientific snag that it 
hit. The most important thing for me to do is learn from these lessons and move 
forward. I will focus on science that I enjoy: synchronization, and possibly 
networks. I will try to be careful in how I manage my students (when I 
eventually get students) and I will give careful analysis to what is going on 
when either I or my colleagues seem unable to make progress on a problem.

=cut
