=pod

L<This week's 
readings|http://lectionary.library.vanderbilt.edu/texts.php?id=268> were 
interestingly paired. The Old Testament reading was from L<1 Kings 
19:19-21|http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1%20Kings%2019:19-21&version=NRSV>, 
about Elija calling Elisha; the New Testament reading was from L<Paul's letter 
to the Galatians, chapter 5 verses 
13-25|http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Galatians%205:13-25&version=NRSV>, 
in which he discusses fruits of the flesh and fruits of the spirit; finally, the 
Gospel reading was from L<Luke 
9:51-62|http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke%209:51-62&version=NRSV>, 
in which Jesus tells those who might wish to follow him that they basically need 
to foresake everything they currently own and love to follow him.

The Gospel and the Old Testament readings have a very odd flavor, and have 
always seemed a bit odd to me. I remember hearing once that the notion of 
foresaking your family for a religious cause is exactly what a B<cult> would 
have you do. Interestingly enough, Jesus' words in this gospel do B<not> require 
of His followers that they give up their family (though I believe He says this 
somewhere else in the gospels). Rather, He simply states in multiple ways that 
deciding to follow Him means giving up aspects of one's previous life. In this 
context, the reading from Galatians is a perfect pairing. Paul outlines a whole 
list of behaviors that are incongruent with following Jesus, and goes on to list 
a set of behaviors that we should strive to embody: love, joy, peace, patience, 
kindness, generosity, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.

The first idea that came to me as I half-listened to the sermon was that Jesus' 
call that I turn my back on my family is a non-issue for me: my family (and 
Katherine's family) are mostly non-sedentary Christians. There is nothing to 
reject when my parents, siblings, spouse, and in-laws critically examine their 
faith. The need to reject one's family only arises when one comes from a 
non-Christian family. The same is true about one's circle of friends: one need 
not reject one's friends if they are Christians.

Furthermore, I don't think that anybody should reject their friends or family 
just because they are not Christian. I don't think that any of Jesus' words in 
the Gospel demand this of His followers. After all, who better to show the love 
of Christ to my family or friends than me? The notion that we should reject any 
relationship completely, outright, is naive.

And so another more nuanced thought came to me. I began to think about the first 
time I would have heard and discussed these words in earnest: high school. High 
school is the time of life when most people make major decsisions about moral 
and ethical beliefs, and these readings are absolutely appropriate for those 
sorts of conversations. There is a whole host of behaviors that high schoolers 
(and undergraduates) confront for the first time, and must decide to do or not 
to do. Should one have sex with someone outside of marriage? Paul says no and I 
happen to agree. When unmarried, it is hard to judge the character of a person 
when you are sexually involved with them. When married, sex outside of the 
marriage is just asking for anger and jealousy, even when the spouse consents. 
One could apply a similar analysis to Paul's other warnings. In general, Paul's 
writings provide a set of Best Practicies, you might say, which ought to be 
examined and discussed in the context of a group of serious Christians.

Then, when I make a decision about a "best practice" that goes against what I 
currently do, B<then> Jesus' words hit home. Jesus tells me to walk away 
immediately from whatever I want to give up. When I decide to bury an old 
behavior, i.e. to ritualistically do away with it, Jesus' instructions are to 
simply cut it off. When I feel called to a set of moral standards, I should just 
start living them.

But even that interpretation is too blunt. If there's anything I know about 
modern psychology (and about myself), it is that trying to drop 20 habits and 
start 20 new habits is a recipe for failure. I think a more appropriate 
interpretation is to start working on bettering myself, without delay. This may 
mean dropping one bad habit and picking up one good one every week. It most 
certainly means surrounding myself with a community of supportive believers who 
can help me when things get tough.

And that's where I return to what Jesus said. If I decide that I need to change 
myself, I shouldn't put myself in the environment in which my old habits 
thrive. I should start building a new environment where I can develop those
aspects of myself that I want to grow.

=cut

