=pod

Today is my first official day as Professor Mertens. I am very happy to have
finally, officially begun working for Dickinson.

I am particularly grateful for the Dickinson HR staff. Although most of my HR 
paperwork was finished months ago, I submitted a few elements later than the HR 
folks would have liked. In spite of this, every person with whom I spoke was 
kind, helpful, patient, and graceful. Even though I submitted my paperwork late, 
they handled it swiftly and I believe that all of my benefits and deductions 
will kick-in on time. Great job!

Very broadly speaking, support staff tend to fall into three categories. First, 
you have staff who tend to be late with paperwork even when the faculty get 
their stuff submitted on time. Second, you have staff who usually handle on-time 
paperwork fine, but typically have trouble dealing with late paperwork. This is 
what I would expect out of staff. Third, you have staff who are so organized 
that they essentially always get on-time paperwork handled appropriately and 
they can often accomodate late paperwork. This sort of staff is truly 
exceptional, and this is precisely what I have experienced with the HR staff at 
Dickinson.

Last minute paperwork is unavoidable. I expect that in the coming months and 
years, I will learn to better estimate what needs to happen and how much time it 
will take for me to accomplish it. This time around I got 90% done early or 
on-time. Now that I have clearer priorities and fewer distractions, I want to 
push that up to 99% or better. If I get my paperwork in early moving forward, 
the staff will have the excess capacity that they need to accomodate the next 
round of new-hires, and the next person who, like me, gets the last bit of 
paperwork in late.

=cut
