=pod

My primary area of research is synchronization. I have studied this phenomenon 
theoretically, computationally, and experimentally. The term synchronization
could refer to many things, however, so I want to be clear: I am interested in
spontaneous collective synchronization.

One of the best examples of the kind of behavior that I find interesting is 
L<this video on youtube, illustrating a set of metronomes converging to 
synchronous beating|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W1TMZASCR-I>. You can also 
watch L<an even larger example|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kqFc4wriBvE>.

=head2 What it's not

I want to begin by pointing out a number of phenomena that are often conflated 
with the behavior that I study. These phenomena may be interesting, but differ 
from spontaneous collective synchronization in some important ways.

First up, we have mechanical resonance. A well known and dramatic example of 
mechanical resonance is the collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge, which is 
L<wonderfully explained 
here|http://on.aol.com/video/the-original-tacoma-narrows-bridge-collapse-of-1940-119995718>. 
You will notice in that clip that the bridge sways from the day it opened, but 
it took months before the bridge encountered winds with enough sustained energy 
to trigger the collapse. For the bridge, the gale-force winds act as a source of 
energy that interacts with the natural oscillation frequency of the bridge and 
leads to its ultimate demise. In contrast to collective synchronization, there 
is really only one oscillator in the Tacoma Narrows collapse, albeit a rather 
complicated one. These sorts of phenomena can be modeled using coupled harmonic 
oscillators or models of continuous media. These models can accurately predict 
the situations that could lead to resonant build-up of energy. This is a cool 
phenomenon, but it is not spontaneous collective synchronization.

Second, it is easy to find lots of systems that are synchronized, but not 
spontaneously. Modern operating systems have options to L<synchronize your 
clock's computer|http://www.nist.gov/pml/div688/grp40/its.cfm> to the L<atomic 
clocks at the National Institute for Science and 
Technology|http://www.time.gov/>. Synchronized timing is very important for a 
wide range of computing applications, but the synchronization is not 
spontaneous: it is carefully calibrated and controlled.

Having pointed out a couple of ideas that are similar to what I study, but not 
quite the same, let's turn to the key features of collective spontaneous 
synchronization.

=head2 Key features of collective spontaneous synchronization

Listen carefully to the L<first metronome 
example|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W1TMZASCR-I>, just after all of the 
metronomes have begun clicking. At about nine seconds into the video, there is a 
repeating pattern of two clicks and a beat of silence. By fifteen seconds, one 
of the metronomes has gotten ahead of or behind the others and filled the beat 
of silence, leading to a steady stream of clicks. By 24 seconds, just as the 
metronomes are being placed on the cans, the beat pattern has changed once 
again.

We can draw two firm conclusions from these observations: one is that the 
metronomes are set to different metronome markings (typically abbreviated as mm 
in sheet music), and the other is that the metronomes are not converging to the 
same frequency. The situation changes almost immediately when the metronomes are 
placed on the soda cans, and they quickly synchronize. They over-shoot their 
synchronization slightly and it takes a little longer for them to completely 
settle, but by about one minute into the video, they are fully synchronized and 
remain that way until the end of the video.

Unlike the Tacoma Narrows Bridge, each oscillator has its own internal source of 
energy. These are active, not passive, oscillators. Unlike computer clock 
synchronization, there is no controlled mechanism of synchronization, and there 
is no single predominant oscillator.

When the metronomes are placed on the soda cans, each of them contributes to the 
initially incoherent swaying of the board on the cans. Each metronome's pendulum 
experiences a continuous stream of tiny pushes and pulls from the other 
metronomes, transmitted through the wooden base. These continuous, tiny 
interactions lead to the emergence of a common frequency of synchronization. Once
the metronomes have found their collective frequency and transient behavior has
died off, the metronomes will remain synchronized until they run out of energy.

Continuous, regular, robust timing emerges from a collection of simple yet 
distinct oscillators with simple interactions. This sort of mechanical example 
is nothing more than an illustration since we can manufacture oscillators with 
highly tuned frequencies. The more important application of this phenomenon is 
in living systems, most notably the heart's pacemaker cells. Pacemaker cells 
invariably have a variation in their natural frequency, but by responding to the 
beats from other cells, the pacemake cells can robustly synchronize and the 
heart can beat with carefully timed, robust, synchronized motion. Unlike the 
theory for mechanical resonance, the theory of synchronization is still under 
current development, making it an important and fresh field for research.

=cut
