=pod

Katherine and I decided a few months ago that I would lead the charge with our 
move, including booking movers and doing most of the packing. Nearly 
immediately, I sought resources that could step me through what needed to happen 
and a good timeline for a smooth process. Alas, Moving for Dummies doesn't 
exist, though an amusing blog entry with a photoshopped image cover B<does> 
exist. Now that I've have a date on hold with my moving company and have bought 
my plane ticket to get to DC, I'd like to pause briefly to examine how the 
process unfolded.

A key wrinkle in our move is that our current lease runs until July 31, but we 
can't move in to our new place until early August. Furthermore, I want to get to 
Carlisle in mid-July and Katherine is going to be super-busy with work near the 
end of July. As a result, we basically need to move our stuff out in mid-July 
and have it held somewhere until early August.

There are roughly three different ways to do an interstate move with storage. 
You can move yourself, you can get PODs or the like, or you can book a 
professional moving company.

First, you can move yourself. We live in a third-story walkup with a spinnet 
(small upright) piano and no elevator so we have to book movers. There is simply 
no way for me to move that piece of furniture on my own, or even with the help 
of friends. So, we will have to book a crew to load the truck in Chicago. Then, 
we can't leave a loaded truck in the city of Chicago: that's just asking to 
loose all our stuff. So, I'd have to hit the road with our stuff. Once in 
Carlisle, I could either park the truck somewhere for three weeks, or we can 
find a storage facility. If we go for a storage facility, then we have to get 
movers to unload our stuff, and later to move the stuff from the facility to our 
new place. Because we would have seperate load, unload, and move events, this is 
pricier than I had expected. The notion of parking the truck in Carlilse for a 
few weeks hadn't occurred to me until after I had decided to book movers, but 
I'm not sure if it would have been cost effective since I would have had to pay 
for a truck rental for three weeks during peak moving season. At any rate, 
because we have so much stuff, and because have a small piano, this option is 
not nearly as cost-effective as we had hoped. The major advantage of this 
approah over the others is that we control exactly when things move out of 
Chicago and move into our new place, but is it worth the logistical headache?

Second, you can get a POD or similar service. For example, U-haul has a pod-like 
option. This would have been a nice option, I think, if Chicago allowed PODs to 
be dropped-off on the street. Unfortunately, they do not. You must have a 
private driveway on which to have the pod delivered. An option that my sister 
recommended was to have the pod delivered to Katherine's parents' house in the 
suburbs, and then load a truck with our stuff. Because of the intermediary step, 
this process is, like self-moving, less cost-competitive than we had hoped. This 
option is decent, but still presents the logistical headache and doesn't 
guarantee timing.

Third, you can book professional interstate movers. This option is the most 
pricey and you have to accept a full week delivery window. It is also the most 
comfortable. You have to book estimators to pay a visit and estimate about how 
much stuff you have. They are always very nice and do an good job convincing you 
that they are your best option. This made me a bit skeptical: they seemed too 
nice and were asking for a bunch of money. The week-long uncertainty in their 
delivery date coupled with Katherine's tight work schedule made me think long 
and hard before going with them.

We knew when we signed our lease for early August that we were electing to 
complicate our move to Carlisle. We think we have a great place, and we are 
pretty sure that the complication at the front-end of our time in Carlisle will 
pay off. However, it was surprisingly complicated, and I hope that our moves in 
the future will be simpler.

=cut
