=pod

Today I wish to write a short post about what we've learned during the packing
process for our move to Carlisle.

On Boxes. In the past, and mastered in my move from undergrad to grad school, I 
regularly swung by the grocery store and requested banana boxes. These are 
sturdy boxes and are easy to cary and stack nicely. By starting well in advance, 
maybe one month, I managed to pack all of my things slowly and without much 
stress. I usually called the store before heading over to see if they had any 
boxes, or with a request to hold some, to make sure that my drive wasn't in 
vain. Unfortunately, Katherine was strongly opposed to having a slowly 
accumulating pile of boxes in our apartment, so that plan was nixed.

Instead of getting produce boxes from the local grocer, we bought boxes. Moving 
estimators included expected box counts in their estimates, and we knew that if 
we overbought we could return them, so we went to Home Depot to buy a bunch of 
small, medium, and large boxes. We called ahead to make sure they had moving 
boxes, but we did not call to make sure they had what we needed. They were out
of stock of medium boxes. So, lesson one: even if you buy a set of moving boxes
from a store, buy them ahead of when you need them so that you can ensure that
you have what you need before you start packing.

I don't remember having trouble packing things safely in the past. This is 
probably because I never had much to break before moving in with Katherine, and 
the glasses and such that I did have could be wrapped in blankets. We were able 
to go grab a bunch of old newspapers in new stands when it came time to pack the 
dishes, but that was another unexpected surprise with the packing.

Next time we move, I think we'll get ahead of the curve acquiring the boxes. I 
also expect that Carlisle won't have nearly as many free newspaper stands lying 
about with unread material, so we will have to be a bit more intentional getting 
our packing material for our next move. Otherwise, it's essentially been what I 
expected: time consuming, but a mostly methodical process.

=cut
