=pod

L<This week's 
readings|http://lectionary.library.vanderbilt.edu/texts.php?id=269> were from 
Isaiah, Galatians, and Luke. For some reason both of our regular pastors were 
out, so we had some members of the congregation who are ordained ministers 
officiate the service.

The preacher focused on Jesus' sending of seventy disciples, who went "on ahead 
of him". The disciples have great success in their work, healing the sick and 
curing the demon-possessed. Indeed, this last bit sticks out in the minds of 
many of the disciples, who say, "Lord, in your name even the demons submit to 
us!" (As a side note, demon posession is the antiquated conception of modern-day 
mental illness. Curing the sick and casting out demons are physical and mental 
sides of the same coin: restoring health and wholeness.)

The take away message is an important one, especially in for Christians who find 
themselves in scientific circles where religion and religious expression are not 
always well understood. The preacher pointed out that the seventy disciples were 
sent to prepare these places for Jesus' coming. Upon their return, they were 
puffed up with what they had accomplished, but Jesus reminds them that their 
accomplishments are not rally their own: they are the work of God.

I find that most scientists that are Christian are quiet about their faith. I 
have certainly been quiet about mine for most of my adult life. Indeed, I 
usually go no further than wearing a cross around my neck and hoping that my 
actions do all the talking.

However, some individuals can get carried away with their faith, especially when 
dealing with secular folks such as scientists. They use metaphors pulled 
directly from the letters of Paul, and think of such groups of people as a 
"harvest" waiting to be "reaped." I find this mindset offensive and unwise. 
Although I believe that everybody has a need, and even a hunger, for a 
relationship with Christ, I also know that many people have been hurt by the 
church or by Christians. Conceiving of non-believers as a harvest dehumanizes 
and alienates the very individuals that Jesus wants to know more fully.

More to the point of this sermon, viewing individuals as a harvest makes it all 
too easy for pride to creep into the mind of the zealous Christian. With pride 
comes the notion that success is a function of our own skill, our own ability to 
communicate or empathize. But if an irreligious person comes to faith, it 
reflects God's skill and ability. It reflect's God's singular ability to satisfy 
the need and desire of that person. There is nothing that the individual 
Christian can do apart from point out the need for God; God does the rest.

The preacher used a very interesting metaphor for Christians: we should go out 
into the world like a politician's ground game. That is, political campaigners 
go out hoping not for their own election, but rather for their candidate's 
election. In the same way, Christians should go out into the world seeking God's 
success, not their own, and they should keep their own pride out of the 
discussion.

=cut
