=pod

Well, it's been about two weeks of blogging, and so far it's gone pretty well. 
The most important part is that it's actually getting done, which was not 
guaranteed when I started. Of course, it helps a lot that I've put a very high 
priority on writing, but that's no guarantee, and if I pick topics that take a 
lot of time to unpack, it'll eat into my morning, or even my afternoon. I still 
have a few things to learn about maintaining a blog.

Let me start with the most important factor for my success: blogging in the 
morning. Putting this near the start of my day gives it a very high priority and
ensures that it doesn't get perpetually put-off. This means that by the time I
need it, I will have already generated many small pieces of content that I can
string together into the main material for my web pages.

However, this does not always work, for a few reasons. Sometimes I choose to 
write about topics that are simply too big to discuss in a single blog post, but 
I do it anyway. This is most likely to happen with technical posts, which take a 
long time to write because they require so much extra research. By working on 
them longer than I really meant to do, I end up building up a notion that 
blogging is more detrimental than helpful. This perspective is not sustainable. 
Another reason that morning blogging does not always work is that I pick topics 
that I cannot write about in the morning, most notably sermons on Sundays. I 
cannot write until I have gone to church, but yesterday I didn't take the time 
to write after getting back from church. (The post dated yesterday was written 
earlier today.) Finally, blogging first-thing takes a lot of time in the 
morning, and if my wife and I want to get an early start to the day, I either 
have to get up early, postpone our own getting started, or forego morning 
writing.

Another aspect of regular blogging that is very good is that I am slowly 
building up the content that of my website(s). This is important because I 
cannot imagine I would have the time or patience to write a large collection of 
web pages, or later perform large-scale updates. By focusing on slow, continual 
content updates via blog posts, I have a system that is sustainable precisely 
because it comes in bite-sized pieces.

Two skills will become important as I move forward. First, I must learn to stop 
writing when it is clear that a topic is going to take too much time to write in 
one go. This is a discipline, and it can be frustrating. I hate interupting my 
stream of thinking just because I ran out of time. However, I sometimes end up 
with posts that are far larger in scope than I had anticipated, a sort of 
feature creep manifested in writing. This calls for another important 
discipline: outlining what I want to say, and then sticking with my outline. 
These disciplines compliment each other and if I master them, I think I will be 
much more likely to keep this up for a long time to come.

Overall, it's been a success, and I hope to continue with it. Hopefully I can 
make the writing for small topics short and succinct, and break down the writing 
for huge topics into smaller, more manageable chunks. Also, I hope that I can 
structure my morning routines so as to start my day with regular blogging. Only 
time will tell, but I am optimistic.

=cut
