=pod

Today is our second wedding anniversary! Two years ago today, our families 
gathered in Urbana, Illinois to witness our wedding vows and to have a big 
party. In this more personal blog post, I am going to look back on the last two 
years.

Let me begin with some basic chronology. After the wedding, we took our 
honeymoon in Hawaii. Our lease didn't start until August 1, so I returned to my 
house in Urbana and tried to tie up loose ends before the move. I began working 
at Northwestern at nearly the same time. Over the next two years, we had 
Christmasses and Thanksgivings with family all over the country. In spite of my 
general lack of organization, we managed to keep our bills paid and the house in 
Urbana from falling down. And now we are on the verge of our first move to
Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

The most stressful part of our relationship has been my general lack of 
self-reflection. I am doing better about that lately, but I have historically 
been inconsisent. This was never more evident than when I began working on my 
job search. Shortly after I began the process, Katherine realized that our next 
move would in all likelihood take us away from Chicago, and likely put us in a 
small college town. Most of my energy at that time was focused on the search 
process, and I should have given more energy to reflecting on how Katherine 
would feel with the change. The great part of her job is that she can take it 
with her and work remotely. This double-edged sword also meant that she left 
most of the process to me, even when she would have liked to have a greater say 
in where we ended up. I wish I would have handled that whole process with more
empathy.

Of course, we've had a lot of fun over the last two years. We knew we wanted to 
learn more about Chicago's architecture and we signed up to be members of 
Chicago's architecture foundation. We went on a number of tours and when we had 
visitors, we were sure to take them out on one. Another fun activity that 
emerged over the last two years has been cycling. Katherine got into riding her 
bike to work, and I followed suit last summer. Although we have not yet gone on 
any cycling tours together, we look forward to trying such a tour with the 
Harrisburg cycling club when we reach Pennsylvania. 

One of our mainstays has been El Mariachi, a small mexican restaurant just 
around the corner. Katherine's food allergies have made it difficult to eat, and 
it is usually far from spontaneous. However, there are many items on Mariachi's 
menu that she can eat without triggering any allergies, making this one of the 
few places we could visit spontaneously. The setting is intimate and the food is 
delicious. It seemed like we were able to easily slip into conversation whenever 
we sat down.

We will miss our church a lot. I have attended a number of churches, but I would 
describe very few of them as a church home. Holy Trinity Lutheran Church has 
been one such church that we would call a church home, and we will miss it. In 
conversations I have had with other members leading up to our departure, I have 
said many times "We will never find another Holy Trinity," but I have followed 
that up with an optimistic note about finding a new church in Carlisle. After 
all, I have managed to find a good church nearly anywhere I have lived. I only 
recently realized just how impermanent I have generally felt at most of my 
churches, in contrast to how I feel at Holy Trinity. We will miss this 
community.

In eighteen years, we will look back on our marriage and recall old, 
rosy-colored memories of riding our bikes by the lake, or tell jokes about the 
struggle of living in a crummy apartment. We will necessarily confuse our first 
years with our Chicago years. Our early marrital struggles will mingle with our 
dissatisfaction with the city, and our good memories will be framed by the 
Chicago skyline. Katherine loves this city, and I am glad that we spent our 
first and formative years as a married couple in a place that she loves.

=cut
