=pod

If you are an undergraduate considering working with me, you should start by 
comparing your skills and interests with the skills and interests needed to be 
successful in this line of research. Today, I will address the skill set needed 
for good theoretical work in Kuramoto-based synchronization research. If you 
have not already, you should read my L<basic overview of the kind of 
synchronization that I 
study|http:/blog/07/03-What-I-mean-by-synchronization.pod>.

I want to define a few terms I will use to discuss skill level: "familiar", 
"comfortable", and "proficient". Familiar means that you've encountered a 
concept and have a basic idea for what it is, but you wouldn't be able to 
perform any useful calculations without some help. For example, you know that an 
integral is formally defined as a limit, but you may never have actually 
performed the limit to calculate an integral. This makes you "familiar" with 
this definition of an integral. Comfortable means that you've actually used an 
idea once or twice and have a basic notion for how the idea works, even if you 
cannot remember all of the detailed steps. If I asked you to perform a similar 
calculation in our work toegether, you would consult your course notes or some 
of my notes with a similar problem, and then adjust the technique to the problem 
at hand. For most students who have taken a course in Calculus but have not yet 
taken Calculus-based physics, derivatives and integrals usually fall into this 
category: you will need to consult your course notes a few tiems to recall how 
to perform the chain rule or integration by parts, for example. Proficient means 
that you are perfectly comfortable with the technique and can perform it without 
any guidance or notes. Any student of physics should be proficient in basic 
algebra, for example.

For theoretical work in synchronization, the starting point is the Kuramoto 
model (WHICH I WILL EXPLAIN ELSEWHERE). Many of the basic components of the 
Kuramoto model lie at the edge of (but thankfully not beyond) an undergraduate 
physics major's normal training in mathematics. First, you must be B<proficient> 
with ordinary differential equations and B<comfortable> with partial 
differential equations. The model itself is expressed using complex numbers, so 
you must be B<comfortable> with algebraic manipulations of complex numbers, but 
B<familiarity> with complex analysis is I<not> necessary. A great deal of my 
current work on finite-sized populations requires Taylor expansions and other 
approximations, so you must be B<comfortable> with these as well.

In terms of course work, you will probably have the skills necessary for this 
research if you have taken at least one upper-level physics course. Although 
this is fundamentally a problem in statistical physics, the normal techniques of 
statistical mechanics (such as calculating the partition function) are not 
actually very helpful. That said, you may have a hard time understanding why 
this kind of stuff is cool if you've not taken statistical mechaics. At any 
rate, if you have taken at least one upper-level course, you will probably be in 
good shape to get started.

Even if you do not have the skills listed above to get started, feel free to get 
a hold of me if you are interested in this work. The earlier we start discussing 
your interests, the sooner we can get you ready to do real research!

=cut
