=pod

I have high hopes that I will have the opportunity to work on my synchronization 
research with students while at Dickinson. To help students who are considering 
doing research with me, I wrote yesterday about L<the basic skills a student 
would need to work with me on the theory of 
synchronization|http:/blog/07/10-Skills-needed-for-Kuramoto-theory.pod>. Today I 
will discuss the skills I would need of a student who wants to study 
synchronization with me numerically.

Numerical computing is necessary for the data analysis of any project. When I 
speak about numerical computing, I refer to elevating our numerics to the role 
of primary research. We would do this, essentially, when writing simulations.

I have an extremely low technical bar for new students when it comes to 
numerical work: you need to be interested in learning how to program. This low 
technical bar is accompanied by another requirement: you need to have lots of 
time in your schedule to learn to program. Even if you have experience 
programming, you are probably not familiar with the language I use for my 
research: L<Perl|http://www.perl.org/>. I find that Perl is pretty easy to pick 
up, especially if you have a local expert (which would be me), but it still 
takes time. If you are proficient in another language, you will need to put some 
time into learning the ins and outs of using Perl for research.

If you need to learn to program, you should expect to spend roughly 10 hours per 
week for the first two semesters we work together, or you should talk with me 
about working together over the summer. If you are proficient in another 
language, you should expect to spend 10 hours per week for the first semester to 
learn Perl and the specific project management workflow that I use in my 
research.

If you are interested in using simulations to study physics and physical
problems, we should talk.

=cut
