=pod

Today's writings continue on the theme from the last two days. Two days ago I 
discussed L<the basic skills a student would need to work with me on the theory 
of synchronization|http:/blog/07/10-Skills-needed-for-Kuramoto-theory.pod> and 
yesterday I went over L<what a student should expect if they want to numerically 
study synchronization with 
me|http:/blog/07/10-Skills-needed-for-Kuramoto-theory.pod>. Any student 
interested in experimental studies of synchronization should certainly speak 
with Professor English. He is already doing experimental work on synchronization 
and I do not expect that I will be able to set up any experiments at Dickinson 
in my first year. However, I have done experiments in the past and I hope to 
work on some of my own in the future, so here I flesh out what I would need from 
students interested in studying synchronization experimentally, when it does 
eventually get underway.

The basic prerequisites for experimental work are not fixed. But as a starting 
point, I would like for you be familiar with concepts from nonlinear dynamics. 
Also, an upper-level course in physics should give us a common vocabulary to 
discuss what we see in the lab. Although these are not hard requirements for 
laboratory work (I'm sure a student could get started with lab work in their 
first semester at Dickinson if they really wanted to), they would be really 
helpful.

You should also have, or plan to develop, subject matter expertise. My previous 
experimental work on synchronization involved lots of small cell-phone 
vibrators. If you wanted to work with these sorts of oscillators (i.e. 
mechanical ones), you would need a firm grasp of Newtonian mechanics. If you 
want to study electronic oscillators, you would need to be comfortable with 
electronic components and building circuits. Biological oscillators could be 
very interesting to study, but I do not know much biology, so you would have to 
know the underlying biology or find a professor with that expertise.

As physicists, we aim to understand and explain real, physical phenomena. The 
most elegant theory is of no use if it does not provide insight into a physical 
process. Your role as an experimentalist is to collect data from a real system 
that confirms or refutes a theoretical or numerical prediction. Although some 
aspects of experimental work can be tedious or boring, it produces the most 
important currency of physics: real, physical data.

=cut
