=pod

This morning was the last moring I will wake up in my apartment in Chicago. I 
have spent nearly two years living in this space, and today it gets packed up on 
a truck, to be delivered to my new place in Carlisle in early August. All the 
boxes are ready, so now I just wait for the moving truck. It's a pretty exciting 
day.

On of the most important parts of this move, personally, is that I will be two 
and three hours driving distance to my two sisters: Kristen lives in D. C. and 
Jill lives in New York. My sisters and I have become increasingly geographically 
spread out since Kristen went to college in the summer of 1997. Since then, 
we've all gone to college, gotten jobs, and gotten married. I had always assumed 
that my sisters and I would only live within close geographical proximity if we 
all ended up back new St. Louis (where we all went to high school and have 
family), so when Jill moved to New York with every intention of staying there 
permanently, it felt as though we would never have that opportunity.

This was roughly how things stood for six of the last eight years. I went to 
grad school, still in the midwest, and Kristen floated around a bit before 
finally settling with her husband in the D. C. area a couple of years ago. It 
wasn't clear if they were going to stay there permanently, but suddenly a new 
possibility come to us: we could all converge to some sort of geographical 
proximity on the east coast. With my acceptance to Dickinson and move to 
Carlisle, along with Kristen's decision to settle permanently and purchase a 
house, we have rather suddenly and happily converged.

What does this mean for my siblings and me? I expect and look forward to 
spending time together that is not just during the holidays. I look forward to 
visiting Kristen's church and brewing beer with James. I want to meet Jill's 
shelter kitties and see Cam play at a live gig. But, most of all, I look forward 
to cooking fun meals togehter and talking with my sisters. If we end up spending 
a fair amount of time together, I hope that we go on a few hikes, or maybe even 
go on a camping trip together.

Living in Carlisle and working at Dickinson will be an exciting new change. The 
scenery will be much more to my liking and the work will be more suitable to my 
tastes. And for the first time in sixteen years, I will have an opportunity to 
develop meaningful relationships with my sisters as adults. Even if I don't stay 
in Carlisle long, I am sure that will be an important part of my time in 
Pennsylvania.

=cut
