=pod

This blog entry was easy to start but has proven surprisingly difficult to 
finish. It's a good parable, and there's always more to say! It was slated to 
land on Sunday, July 14, but it didn't, and its looming presence kept me from 
finishinig any other entry that whole week. I worked on it more on July 21 but 
didn't quite finish it, and I wisely put it aside so I could write other 
entries. On July 25, I back-posted this for July 21.

L<The Gospel for Sunday, July 
14|http://lectionary.library.vanderbilt.edu/texts.php?id=270> was about the Good 
Samaritan. For the fun of it, let's take two passes at this story.

The children's sermon on this topic goes like this: a man who is on the road 
gets robbed and beaten up. A few folks pass him by, but someone eventually helps 
him out, going well above the call of duty in this situation. The moral of the 
story is pretty simple: if you see somebody who needs help, offer to help them 
beyond their expectations. If your interpretation goes no further than this, you 
will still have a good interpretation. The genius of Jesus' parables is that 
even the simplest level of interpretation is good and instructive.

=head2 The Full Story

But Jesus' parables always have more depth. Let's look more closely. Here is the 
full text, taken from the link posted at the start of this post:

=over

Just then a lawyer stood up to test Jesus. "Teacher," he said, "what must I do 
to inherit eternal life?" He said to him, "What is written in the law? What do 
you read there?" He answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your 
heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your 
mind; and your neighbor as yourself." And he said to him, "You have given the 
right answer; do this, and you will live." But wanting to justify himself, he 
asked Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?"

Jesus replied, "A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell into 
the hands of robbers, who stripped him, beat him, and went away, leaving him 
half dead. Now by chance a priest was going down that road; and when he saw him, 
he passed by on the other side. So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place 
and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan while traveling came 
near him; and when he saw him, he was moved with pity. He went to him and 
bandaged his wounds, having poured oil and wine on them. Then he put him on his 
own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. The next day he took 
out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said, 'Take care of him; and 
when I come back, I will repay you whatever more you spend.' Which of these 
three, do you think, was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of the 
robbers?" He said, "The one who showed him mercy." Jesus said to him, "Go and do 
likewise."

=back

Even the setup of this parable is wonderful. Jesus was a traveling rabi and he 
must have been asked similar questions many times, and turned the question 
around on his listener many times. How often do you think he got back such a 
wonderful, succinct answer? The Lawyer's response summarizes the Law, with a 
strong dose of prophetic wisdom and interpretation. Clearly this was a man who 
gave careful thought to his faith. Jesus noticed this carefully considered man 
and followed up his excellent answer with a thought provoking parable.

It is easy for modern day listeners to miss just how thought provoking this 
story is. To understand why, you need to know a few things about stereotypes in 
Jewish culture from the classical period. These provide depth to an interesting 
but otherwise straight-forward story.

The man questioning Jesus is a "Lawyer". Not only did he demonstrate a careful 
interpretation of the Law, but in all likelyhood this was a man who strove to 
align his life as closely as possible with the Jewish Law. Without going into 
too much detail, the Jewish law had a number of strict ordinances for what 
individuals could or could not do, and what sorts of rituals they had to perform 
if they accidentally or intentially did something forbidden. It is not uncommon, 
but incorrect, to think that Jesus' establishment of Christianity broke the old 
Jewish law. The Church ultimately broke away from Judaism, but that break wasn't 
strictly necessary as Jesus frames his entire ministry in terms of the Jewish 
Law and Jewish cultural customs. Indeed, Jesus' main point is that the 
legalistic way of living that had been perfected by some in the classical Jewish 
culture was morally flawed. He was not actually finding fault with the faith, 
just the practice.

=head2 History

Let's cover a little bit of history, by which I mean, a bit of Genesis and 
Exodus. If you've ever seen L<Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream 
Coat|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_and_the_Amazing_Technicolor_Dreamcoat>, 
you know that L<Joseph|http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_%28Hebrew_Bible%29> 
was one of twelve sons of Jacob. Jacob's twelve sons moved to Egypt during a 
time of famine and eventually their descendents became enslaved. The Exodus 
tells the story of their departure from Egypt and their formation of a new state 
of Israel. (Israel was another name for Jacob, the father of the twelve sons.) 
Each of the twelve sons' descendents were formed into a tribe named for the son. 
Joseph had a tribe, for example. Judah was the eldest, and his descendents were 
"from the tribe of Judah". Benjamin was the youngest. One of the twelve brothers 
was Levi, and his descendents were called "Levites". In particular, Moses was a 
Levite and because of Moses' instrumental role in the establishment of Israel 
and the religious statutes that would define the culture, God decreed that all 
priests of Israel would come from the line of the Levites.

Now fast forward a few hundred years. Internal factions caused the tribes of 
Judah and Benjamin to split into their own state, called Judah, apart from the 
other tribes, which kept the name Israel. Jerusalem and the Jewish Temple was in 
Judah, so the king of Israel felt compelled to modify the religion of Israel to 
allow for new temple sites. In particular, he built a temple in the nation's 
capital, Samaria. In the process he also incorporated Baal worship. The citizens
of Judah are repulsed by this mixing of religions and start to see Samaritans,
as they were called, as impure.

Both nations are eventually conquered by larger nation-states and their elites 
are exiled. A small, devoted group of exiles are eventually allowed to return to 
Jerusalem. They believe strongly that God let their predecessors fall because of 
their religious impurity, so purity and strict adherence to the Law become their 
focus. Their opinion of Samaria as the land of impurity, where the true religion 
is mixed with false elements such as Baal worship, makes them repulsed by 
Samaritans more than ever. As a results, Jews of Jesus' day saw Samaritans as 
cultural and religious half-breeds.

Having covered that history, you can appreciate the ordering that Jesus uses to 
introduce his characters. The priest is the holiest of the three. The Levite is 
a "cousin" of the priest; you might think of him as a man whose brother is a 
preacher. Even if he's not a preacher himself, he's probably had late-night 
conversations about ethical and moral behavior. Finally, the Samaritan is the 
morally ugly one. Jesus' audience would have expected that even if this man had 
given careful thought to moral and ethical behavior, he would have started with 
a flawed religion and culture. Jesus introduces individuals of stereotypically
decreasing moral training and insight.

=head2 The Key Conflict of the Parable

But why, then, do the priest and Levite, who should have had compassion, pass 
this poor robbed man? Rather than help the man, I<both> of them pass "one the 
other side". That's akin to a person walking down the street and B<crossing the 
street> just to avoid running into someone they consider unsavory. In case you 
can't picture it, imagine a nicely dressed white couple walking down a sidewalk 
late in the evening after a party, and crossing to the other side of the street 
when they see a hooded black man coming the other direction. The responses by 
the preist and the Levite to this poor robbed man are as "safe" and "cautious" 
as they are offensive.

The reason the priest and Levite avoided this half-dead man was because they 
were pious I<to> the Jewish Law. In a number of circumstances, this sort of 
piety translated into morally and ethically sound behavior. In a number of other 
circumstances, as Jesus is keen to point out, it did not. As I said, the Law had 
all sorts of requirements, and obligations if you missed a requirement. The 
troubled history of the state of Israel led Jews in Jesus' day to strive above 
all else to avoid breaking the Law, and all sorts of things became taboo to Jews 
2000 years ago. One such thing was contact with human blood. Both the uber-pious 
priest and the pious Levite see this robbed, beaten man and rather than see a 
man who needs help, they think "unclean". Rather than allow compassion to fill 
their hearts with pity, they harden their hearts and cross to the other side of 
the road to protect their ritual purity.

Jesus' hearers of this story would have been as conflicted about the setup as 
the first two characters that he introduces. Jesus has picked one of the 
debilitating edge cases in the Jewish customs surrounding the Law that would 
have caused great angst among his listeners. Part of me wonders if this was a 
common thought experiment in Jesus' day? "You're on the road and see a man who 
has been robbed and beaten nearly to death. WHAT DO YOU DO?" Or, maybe Jesus 
came up with the story all on his own. Either way, his hearers would have 
understood completely that this man needs help and surely God wants them to 
offer their help, yet God also told them to avoid contact with human blood. The 
obvious, morally correct response is forbidden by their religous practice. What 
do they do?

=head2 Why Jesus chose the Samaritan

At this point, Jesus could have simply stated that they priest or Levite should 
have behaved differently. With dramatic flare, he instead illustrates the 
correct response with the most dispicable character ever: a Samaritan. The 
popular, 20th-century interpretation of the word "Samaritan" is a do-gooder, but 
as I have already mentioined, Jews had a very low opinion of Samaritans. The 
Samaritan not only takes care of this man's immediate wounds but even pays for 
the man's recovery expenses.

I believe that Jesus uses this story to rail against the focus on ritual purity. 
Jesus' point throughout his ministry is that ritual purity is not what God is 
calling his followers to do. Jesus' main message is that God wants his people to 
protect the weak and serve those who are underserved. Jesus point in this story 
is that anybody would know what to do in this case if they simply followed their 
heart. The first two, the pious ones, were to encumbered by their ritual purity 
to realize that they could and should help this man. The third man was able to 
help the victim precisely because his judment was not clouded.

Lessons from this story can apply to anyone, both the religious and the 
non-religious. Religious folks need to be careful not to allow their religious 
practice to cloud their judgment. Non-religious folks need to be careful to not 
allow their ethical practices to cloud their judgment. Everyone should 
critically examine their practices to be sure that they reflect, and not 
encumber, important principles.

=cut
