=pod

I arrived in Carlisle last Monday evening, seven days ago. My how time flies!

Even though I didn't plan on getting any work done Monday evening, I still 
couldn't keep myself from heading into the office. I was very excited to finally 
be in my new job and new space. I rearranged the furniture a little bit and 
unpacked the few books that I specifically brought for the next couple of weeks. 
(Most of my books are being held in storage by our moving company.)

The next day, I met with Brett Pearson and discussed the electronics course, 
Physics 213. I will use Brett's notes as a starting point for my own, so getting 
a copy of them was an important first step. Brett also helped me get my ID and 
otherwise set things up.

I was a little surprised that a computer wasn't already in my office when I 
arrived, but it showed up one evening after I had left work. It must have been 
Wednesday evening, as I was in the office pretty late Tuesday night. I worked on 
setting it up for the rest of the week, and this morning was the first morning 
that it felt like it was ready for me to just use when I got into the office.

I have had wonderful conversations with Catrina, Hans, Brett, and Lars. Lars and 
I especially had some good technical conversations about synchronization, both 
on one of my own projects and one of his.

I found myself at the end of the day on Friday wishing I had accomplished more 
course preparation. I was concerned about the quantity of material that is new 
to me in this course and the rate at which I am getting through it. I feel much 
better about things on this Monday morning, but I still have a great deal of 
work ahead of me.

Having spent a weekend with my sister in New York, I feel refreshed and ready to 
go. Last week was focused on setting things up. Now it is time to launch into 
preparations.

=cut
