=pod

It seems that every new job is accompanied by a whole host of reading to get 
started. I had the unfortunate experience in my previous job that one of the 
primary documents was not given to me until after I had been on the job for six 
months. Although my experience with the Dickinson startup materials has included 
both well structured and poorly structured documents, I have mostly been happy 
with the process.

=head2 Faculty Handbook

One of the best written documents for getting started at Dickinson is the 
Faculty Handbook. (It seems that there are no links to the handbook chapters at 
the moment, which is unfortunate; a link to the handbook was provided in my 
offer letter and I thankfully downloaded the PDFs at that time.) The handbook is 
a PDF document with chapters and most of the writing is well crafted.

I claim that the Faculty Handbook is one of the easiest documents to read, and I 
have four reasons for that claim. First, the writing is polished throughout much 
of the document. It may be technical and dry in parts, but there are few (if 
any) typography errors, and little of it is superfluous. Second, it is the 
authoritative source. I know that my efforts to get through the dry parts of the 
document will pay off in knowing where to find important information and 
procedures. Third, it is a traditional document. Compared with web sites, I find 
it much easier to identify where to begin reading (first page), how much 
material I've covered (current page), how much remains (also current page), and 
when I've finished (last page). Fourth, I was sent a link to this collection of 
documents shortly after accepting the position. In other words, it was easy to 
find. The document is well written, authoritative, obvious to navigate, and easy 
to find.

=head2 Email Setup

For a contrasting example, consider the series of documents encountered when 
trying to set up my email login credentials. As I L<explained 
yesterday|http:/blog/07/23-Setting-up-Dickinson-Gateway.pod>, the process is 
simple once you realize that you must speak with a human. This sort of thing 
belongs in a Faculty Getting Started Guide, which should be distributed to 
members as soon as they start at Dickinson.

The route that culminated in my credential setup started with a search of my 
email messges. It became evident that I had not gotten any setup instructions in 
my inbox, so I next performed a Google search for "Dickinson set up email", 
which appeared to have information for setting up email clients for already 
existing email accounts. I next searched for the more general "Dickinson 
information technology", leading me to the L<library home 
page|http://library.dickinson.edu/>. Ignoring the plethora of links and reading 
the paragraph that is on the page, I decided that I should probably follow the 
L<Technology link|http://library.dickinson.edu/Technology/> at the lower left of 
the page if I wanted to set up my email address. The first piece of content on 
that page has the header "First Year at Dickinson? Start Here:" and I thought I 
was in the right place, but that was for students, not faculty. The next section 
was about wireless and I wasn't yet on campus, so I skipped it, and finally came 
to the Dickinson Gateway. The Gateway "provides students, faculty and staff with 
secure access to Dickinson College online services. From the Gateway, you can 
check E-mail..." Aha! Now I've found it, I thought to myself. That page is a 
sign-in page: "Enter your Username and Password." I didn't have one yet, so I 
looked at the other links, and discovered to my dismay that all of them were 
only useful if I already had my account set up. All of the institutions where I 
have worked have had an automated setup system, and I was sure that Dickinson 
would too, so I back-tracked kept looking.

Back on the Technology main page, my eyes fell upon the "New to Campus" link in 
the menu on the left. Aha! The ensuing page is uncluttered: "New students, 
faculty and staff often have many questions about technology at the College. To 
help, LIS has provided the following online orientations." Perfect. Surely here 
they will have instructions for setting up email. I followed the link for New 
Faculty and Staff and soon became disheartened. The page had paragraphs 
explaining the internet in terms that would have been helpful in the mid-90s, 
but which was woefully out of date for the present. At multiple points in this 
document and elsewhere, I read that I can contact the help desk if I have a 
computer related problem, but I am convinced that this is not a problem, I just 
need to find the right page to set up my credentials. I find a nice bold bullet 
point for Electronic Mail, describing itself as "If you would like step-by-step 
instructions for learning this system, please click here." Unfortunately, the 
link leads not to step-by-step instructions, but to the L<Tutorials 
Index|http://lis.dickinson.edu/Technology/Training/Tutorials/index.html>. This 
page truly is an index: there must be over 100 links on the page in carefully 
organized groups, with narry a complete sentence on the whole page. I followed a 
number of these links before finally breaking down and sending an email to the 
help desk.

=head2 Teaching Center Without Walls

An interesting document that sits somewhere between the Faculty Handbook and 
(the lack of information for) the Gateway credentials setup is the L<Teaching 
Center Without Walls|http://tcww.dickinson.edu/>. This website presents a series 
of chapters with sections and subsections (and occasionally subsubsections). 
This document explains some of the things that are expected of faculty, as well 
as providing some tips and best practices for teaching.

Like the Faculty Handbook, a was directed to this site by a link sent via email, 
making it easy to find. Also like the faculty handbook, the material is 
organized like a traditional document, so I feel confident reading it from start 
to finish, knowing that I will have learned what they intended to teach me. 
However, the TCWW guide differs from the Faculty Handbook in some important 
respects.

The writing is not as polished as the handbook. I don't think that is a problem. 
It states that top that we, the faculty, are to currate and contribute to this 
document, so a few rough edges is an opportunity to get involved. Unfortunately, 
contributing is difficult, as I will explain shortly.

A larger problem with the TCWW guide is that it contains a number of dead links, 
and a number of other links point to internal pages that require Gateway 
credentials. When I started reading the document I did not have Gateway 
credentials and I began to fear that I would need to re-read the document once I 
obtained those credentials. This put a damper on my desire to read this 
material. It was all the more frustrating for pages whose content had no 
apparent reason to be locked away. My enthusiasm for reading new-to-campus 
documents degrades over time, so the dampening effect of these dead or 
inaccessible links has made getting through the guide much more difficult.

One thing open-source development has taught me is that the barrier to first 
contribution must be small. The steps should be as obvious and as painless as 
possible. The TCWW guide attempts to engage new readers in the editorial process 
by stating that "We hope you will make this guide to teaching your own," and 
there are plenty of small but rough edges that need polishing. B<But, 
critically, it was not obvious how I was to log in to the system to make edits.> 
Not only was there no sign-up link, but it turns out that TCWW uses the Gateway 
system, too, but it doesn't say that anywhere. (If I had known this, I would 
have pushed to get my Gateway credentials and held off reading this guide.) 
Furthermore, even after I managed to log-in today, I discovered I have no 
editorial control over the content. I cannot currate any of the material or even 
add sections within the structure of the document. The closest thing to adding 
new material is to add comments on individual pages in the document. How am I to 
make this material my own if I can't add anything except comments? Am I supposed 
to comment on things, and then let the owner of the admin account synethesize my 
points?

=head2 Conclusion

In spite of my complaints, I believe that the TCWW setup is ultimately the way 
to go for Getting Started guides once the barrier to first contribution has been 
drastically reduced. In fact, I would argue that it is the way to go for the 
vast majority of the content at Dickinson. If the goal of a site is to offer a 
service, such as checking email, booking a room, or electing benefits, then it 
should be a form-based web page. If the goal of a site is to offer information, 
it needs to be in a format that is easily digested by the reader. It has now 
been over a decade since the dot-com boom, and it is time that we realize that 
circularly-linked HTML pages may not be the best way to present information. As 
my praise for Faculty Handbook makes clear, I think that a traditional document 
gives a clear flow of topics and is the best way to create such a guide.

=cut
