=pod

Getting through the initial stage of a literature review can be daunting for 
anybody entering a new field. Ideally an advisor would hand a collection of good 
starting papers and have the student read through them. In my case, my advisor 
was not an expert in my eventual field of research---synchronization. I had to
do my own work to become acquainted with the literature.

My solution to organize and get through my reading was to create Lit Review 
Volumes. I printed off a collection of papers and took them to a local Kinkos 
(Fedex Office?) to bind them together. I had a table of contents on the opening 
page, and I hand-numbered all of the pages to make it easy to find. To give 
myself space for notes without wasting too much paper, I printed two pages on 
one side of an 8.5" x 11" sheet of paper and left the other side blank. This 
gave me a note page "above" whatever I was presently reading. It also left me 
with a blank page at the very end, and I used that space to note any articles 
that I wanted to include in my next lit review volume. Finally, I imposed one
strict rule: I had to read the articles in full, and in order. This method of
organizing the articles and forcing myself to get through the material propelled
me enthusiastically through my reading.

This method of organizing my literature review, and forcing myself to read the 
articles in order, served as an excellent psychological aid in getting through 
the literature. I intentionally placed boring articles before good ones, giving 
myself motivation to get through everything. I also tended to put particular 
good articles at the very end to keep me working through the material. By the 
time I reached the end of the volume, I had a surprising sense of 
accomplishment. Also, by tracking the articles that I wanted to read next, I 
built up anticipation for the next volume that I would read, which helped me 
keep up the regular reading. All of these factors came together to get me 
through many important articles in a matter of a few months.

Although I originally organized my lit review into volumes for motivational 
purposes, it has proven very useful for quickly finding important articles. Once 
during a conversation with my advisor, he asked about an article, and said he 
would give me time to find it. I knew which volume contained the material, so I 
immediately turned to my desk, found the article in the table of contents, and 
handed the volume to him. He was pleasantly surprised. Even now, three or four
yeas after reading the volumes, I can glance at the table of contents and
remember what most of the articles contain. Even though the volumes are somewhat
arbitrary, they serve as a larger context that helps me remember the content of
the articles.

My lit review volumes serve as a useful map of the history of my knowledge of 
the field. Knowing my path through the literature gives me a starting point for
helping a newcomer navigate the literature. In particular, I can recall just how
useful a particular article may have been, and how another article may be less
helpful. I can then suggest a series of articles for a new student to get up to
speed.

One final note. My lit review volumes were my first act of taking ownership of 
my knowledge and research. They were a small innovation that worked well with my 
sense of motivation. By designing my own route through the literature, I 
developed a sense for the conceptual landscape of the field and the confidence 
to choose a next step for my own research.

Although it was a simple organizing principle, creating Lit Review Volumes hit a 
sweet spot and have proven beneficial in many ways. I highly recommend this 
approach to any grad student who is planning any serious literature review 
process.

=cut
